# Deep-Learning projects
This repository contains deep learning projects, where different neural network architectures have been implemented and hyperparameters have been tuned to  best suit the data. 

## MNIST
This folder contains a Neural network implementation on the famous MNIST benchmark dataset. The MNIST is a database of handwritten digits,MNIST ("Modified National Institute of Standards and Technology") is the de facto “hello world” dataset of computer vision. Since its release in 1999, this classic dataset of handwritten images has served as the basis for benchmarking classification algorithms. As new machine learning techniques emerge, MNIST remains a reliable resource for researchers and learners alike.Each image is 28 pixels in height and 28 pixels in width, for a total of 784 pixels in total. Each pixel has a single pixel-value associated with it, indicating the lightness or darkness of that pixel, with higher numbers meaning darker. This pixel-value is an integer between 0 and 255, inclusive. You can find the dataset [here](https://www.kaggle.com/c/digit-recognizer/data).More details are in the respective project folder. 

##  Balanced-scale data
THis folder contains the Balanced-scale dataset for UCI machine learning repository.This data set was generated to model psychological experimental results. Each example is classified as having the balance scale tip to the right, tip to the left, or be balanced. The attributes are the left weight, the left distance, the right weight, and the right distance. The correct way to find the class is the greater of (left-distance * left-weight) and (right-distance * right-weight). If they are equal, it is balanced. The dataset can be downloaded [here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/balance+scale).

## The Facial expression Recognition dataset. 
The Facial expression dataset data consists of 48x48 pixel grayscale images of faces. The faces have been automatically registered so that the face is more or less centered and occupies about the same amount of space in each image. The task is to categorize each face based on the emotion shown in the facial expression in to one of seven categories (0=Angry, 1=Disgust, 2=Fear, 3=Happy, 4=Sad, 5=Surprise, 6=Neutral).
The dataset can be downloaded [here](https://www.kaggle.com/c/challenges-in-representation-learning-facial-expression-recognition-challenge/data).

## Street View housing dataset.
SVHN is a real-world image dataset for developing machine learning and object recognition algorithms with minimal requirement on data preprocessing and formatting. It can be seen as similar in flavor to MNIST (e.g., the images are of small cropped digits), but incorporates an order of magnitude more labeled data (over 600,000 digit images) and comes from a significantly harder, unsolved, real world problem (recognizing digits and numbers in natural scene images). SVHN is obtained from house numbers in Google Street View images.The data can be downloaded [here](http://ufldl.stanford.edu/housenumbers/).
